.\" mpi2gur.pl man page
.\" Contact mmargo@sdsc.edu to correct errors or omissions.
.TH mpi2gur 1 "30 July 2007" "1.1" "mpi2gurl.pl man page"

.SH NAME
.nf
mpi2gur.pl \- Utility to submit and run co-scheduled applications

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B	mpi2gur.pl [--nowait|--wait] [--create_gur|--run_gur|--create_rsl|--run_rsl] RSL-filename

.SH EXAMPLES
1. To create a GUR inputfile without waiting
.sp
	mpi2gur.pl --nowait --create_gur job1.rsl
.sp
2. To run my RSL file in the future without waiting
.sp
	mpi2gur.pl --nowait job1.rsl
.sp	
	this is equivalent to
.sp		
	mpi2gur.pl --nowait --run_rsl job1.rsl
.sp		
3. To get the reservation_ids from GUR without running anything on it
.sp
	 mpi2gur.pl --run_gur job1.rsl
.sp		 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.fi
	This manual page documents the utility mpi2gur.pl. This utility converts
	standard globus file into GUR input file to set coscheduled reservations. 
	Once the reservations are successfully created, mpi2gur.pl will use it to
	run the specified coscheduled job.

.SH OPTIONS
.nf
	--nowait
.sp
	Do not wait for the reservation to start. In some cases, a reservation can start  in the next day or so
.sp
	--wait (default)
.sp
	Wait for reservation to start. The opposite of --nowait. In this mode, mpi2gurl.pl will not return until the reservation is started
.sp		
	--create_gur	
.sp
	Or run stage 0.	This run stage will create a GUR jobfile. Very useful for debugging. The GUR input file is titled <RSL-filename.gur>
.sp		
	--run_gur	
.sp 
	OR run stage 1.	This run stage will create GUR jobfile (as in run stage 0 / --create_gur) and run GUR to get reservation_ids
.sp		
	--create_rsl
.sp
	OR run stage 2.	This run stage will carry out run stage 0 and 1 and append reservation_ids from run  stage 1 to the new RSL file <_RSL-filename.rsl>
.sp		
	--run_rsl
.sp 
	OR run stage 3 (default). This run stage will carry out runstage 0-2 and execute the RSL file using reservations created in previous stage. 
		
.SH BUGS
No known bugs at this time.

.SH AUTHORS
Nicholas Karonis and Derek Baessler
		 
		 
Version 1.1             30 July 2007


		
	

	

	
